---
layout: post
title: Kotlin, initial impressions
tags: [kotlin, programming]
bigimg: /img/kotlin.jpeg
comments: true
---

Like Groovy and Scala before it, Kotlin is a new programming language for development 
on the JVM. After reading that Kotlin was being developed by Jetbrains, the folks behind 
the incredible Java IDE IntelliJ, I decided to give it a try a few weeks ago. Here are some 
of my initial impressions of the language.

Kotlin claims to be very simple for Java programmers to learn, and I agree as I was 
able to pick up the langauge easily and quickly convert some existing Java and Groovy 
code to Kotlin.

One piece of code I had was originally written in JavaScript which I then converted to 
Groovy and then to Kotlin. In both JavaScript and Groovy this `piecewise` variable was 
dynamically typed, however with Kotlin being strongly type I obviously have to type it. 

```kotlin
    var piecewise: ((List<Double>,
                     List<Double>,
                     (Double, Double) -> (Double) -> Double,
                     (Double, Double) -> (Double) -> Double) -> (Double) -> Double)? = null
```

Wow! I'm not sure readabiity has been enhanced at all but typing this 
(though type safety certainly has been). Kotlin 1.1 is coming soon and with it the 
introduction of `typealias` which will allow a type to be mapped to an alias, which 
could help in this situation.

### The Good

...

### The Bad

#### Method parameters are val/final

In Kotlin, method parameters are implicitly `val` (`final` in Java-speak). I know that 
some people consider changing the value of a method parameter to be poor practice - and 
I'll admit that I do not do it often - but at times it can be very convinent. I wouldn't
mind if method parameters were `val` by default but could overriden to `var`, however 
Kotlin doesn't allow this. From what I've read it looks like you used to be able to make 
make method parameters `var` in earlier version of Kotlin but this functionality was removed. 
Bummer!

#### Classes are sealed/final

In Kotlin, all classes are sealed (`final` in Java-speak). This enforces a recommendation 
made in __Effective Java__ (that all classes should be final unless intended for modification). 
I don't think this should be enforced at the language level. I can getting frustrated trying 
to extend Kotlin code written by others and being prevented from doing so because the class 
wasn't opened. I know so far, I ALWAYS forget to open a class until I go to subclass it.

#### No traditional for loops

That's right, they killed the traditional `for` loop (initialization, loop-continuation condition, increment), an only have a for-each style `for` loop.

For example, in Java:
```java
int x = 0;
for(int i = 0; i < array.size(); ++i)
{
    if(i % 2 == 0)
        x += 0;
    else
        x -= 0;
}
```

Can't be directly translated to Java. It isn't hard to replicate


### The Ugly

#### IDE Issues

I've been using Apache Spark (written in Scala) in some Kotlin code recently and it has caused some IDE issues. Slow performance in the editor, deadlocking IntelliJ and in some cases causing the dreaded `KotlinFrontEndException`. The following code is an example code snippet I wrote which crashes the Kotlin compiler:

```kotlin
import org.apache.spark.sql.functions.*
import org.apache.spark.sql.types.DataTypes
import org.apache.spark.sql.SparkSession

fun main(args: Array<String>) {
	val sparkSession = SparkSession.builder()
                                   .master("local")
                                   .appName("mosaic")
                                   .`getOrCreate`()

    val func = { a: Double, b: Double ->
    	 a + b
    }

    val udf = udf(func, DataTypes.DoubleType)
    sparkSession.udf().register("foo", udf)
}
```

I've subitted a bug report to JetBrains and they've flagged it as a Major priority so hopefully the problem will be resolved soon. It was a bit dissappointing to hit such a show-stopping issue so early in my prototyping with Kotlin but thanks to it's excellent Java interopability I'm able to work around it by keeping my code which causes this issue in Java for now.
